---
id: kpogh2o1vew4nxkje0zqanc
title: Thief
desc: ""
updated: 1721831086615
created: 1721729253397
---

## The Thieves Guild

> Dwelling in the sewers and storm drains of every major city, Thieves Guilds are beloved by the poor, despised by the middle class and largely unnoticed by the rich. Selling stolen goods through a network of fences or ransoming objects with obvious sentimental value, the Thieves Guild uses a percentage of their profits to fund bunkhouses and basic healing services for the poor, as well as boarding schools, orphanages, good banks and thrift stores for clothing. What that percentage actually is varies from Guildmaster to Guildmaster, but these philanthropic efforts aid greatly in making sure thieves aren't caught and witnesses keep their mouths shut.
>
> In recent years a sort of subscription service has been devised, wherein a wealthier home can pay a monthly fee to avoid having their windows smashed and their stuff nicked. This subscription service has greatly increased the revenue generated by the guild and has improved the quality of life of Mundain's poorest citizens by quite a large margin.
>
> Just don't call it a tax.

Donating Treasures to the Thieves Guild allows an adventurer to learn some tricks of the trade. The value of the Treasures isn't important, just the quantity. These Thief Skills are learned sequentially from top to bottom.

### Sneaky

- **Total Treasured donated:** 1

Wearing Skimpy or Light armour(**TODO: LINK THIS!**), you do not add your armor to any Stealth Checks(**TODO: LINK THIS!**).

### Shank

- **Total Treasured donated:** 3

When attacking an enemy from behind, Daggers(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) & Short Swords(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) deal 3d4 damage.

### Peeky

- **Total Treasured donated:** 5

You can peek into the next room without the use of Smarts or Stealth Checks.

### Whirl

- **Total Treasured donated:** 7

While wearing Skimpy or Light armour(**TODO: LINK THIS!**), if you have a Tactical Action(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) at the end of your turn, if an enemy attacks you, you can make a DC10 check to dodge the attack and position yourself behind the enemy.

### Rope Daggers

- **Total Treasured donated:** 9

You can sue daggers and short swords(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) as ranged attacks, having tied special ropes to them. Can also be used as a grappling hook.

### Skillful Fingers

- **Total Treasured donated:** 11

Add +8 to any lockpicking challenge and when disarming mechanical traps.

### The Black Hood

- **Total Treasured donated:** 13

You're seen as a full-fledged member of the Thieves Guild. You can hire up to three Thief, Courtesan or Mercenary retainers(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) without needing to pay for their services. You also get your own hooded poncho, which adds +2 to your Armour save when worn with Light(**TODO: LINK THIS!**) or +4 with Skimpy armour(**TODO: LINK THIS!**).

## Thieves Cant

The stupid language thieves use when planning crimes. Everyone know this language and those that don't pick it up immediately.

- Rope WInch = Pinch (steal)
- Sucker Shark = Mark (target)
- Old Maid = Jade (money)
- Flower Stems = Gems
- Fortunes Told = Gold
- Less Light = Tonight
- Mother's Sorrow = Tomorrow
- Tub of Lard = Guard
- Bursting Bank = Shank / Stab
- Rather Handsome = Ransom
- Broken Bard = Under Heavy Guard
- Empty Hole = Light Patrol
- Nice 'n' Gentle = Sentimental
- Frozen Ice = High Price
- Drunken Spittle = Worth Little
- War Chief = Fellow Thief
- Children's Locket = Pickpocket
- Run Free = Key
- Rampant Rage = Cage
- Housekeeping = Sleeping
- Shameless Flirt = Alert
- Little Hope = Rope
- Bard's Crescendo = Window
- Off yer Arse = Glass
- Nice 'n' Bright = Skylight
- Piss Poor = Stone Floor
- Broken Jug = Thick Rug
- Bitch 'n' Moan = Throne
- Cord Cable = Table
- Ear of Elf = Shelf
- Brought Low = Bow
- Daft Shagger = Dagger
- Green Glade = Blade
- Loose the Drawstring = Grab Everything
- Throw a Bone = Leave it Alone
- Hunter's Prey = Run Away
- Wrong 'n' Right = Stand and Fight
- Time for Sun = We're losing, run
- Who's Burnt Bread? = Who's dead?
